## Description

Security Hub collects security data from various AWS accounts, services, and supported third-party partner products, helping you analyze your security trends and identify the highest-priority security issues. When you enable Security Hub, it begins to consume, aggregate, organize, and prioritize findings from the AWS services that you have enabled, such as Amazon GuardDuty, Amazon Inspector, and Amazon Macie. You can also enable integrations with AWS partner security products.

AWS Security Hub provides you with a comprehensive view of your security state in AWS and helps you check your environment against security industry standards and best practices, enabling you to quickly assess the security posture across your AWS accounts.

## Remediation

To grant the permissions required to enable Security Hub, attach the Security Hub managed policy `AWSSecurityHubFullAccess` to an IAM user, group, or role.

Enabling Security Hub:

### From Console

1. Use the credentials of the IAM identity to sign in to the Security Hub console.
2. When you open the Security Hub console for the first time, choose `Go to Security Hub`.
3. The `Security standards` section on the welcome page lists supported security standards. Check the box for a standard to enable it.
3. Choose `Enable Security Hub`.

### From Command Line

1. Run the `enable-security-hub` command, including `--enable-default-standards` to enable the default standards:

```bash
aws securityhub enable-security-hub --enable-default-standards
```

2. To enable Security Hub without the default standards, include `--no-enable-default-standards`:

```bash
aws securityhub enable-security-hub --no-enable-default-standards
```
