## Description

Enable the IAM External Access Analyzer regarding all resources in each active AWS region.

IAM Access Analyzer is a technology introduced at AWS reinvent 2019. After the Analyzer is enabled in IAM, scan results are displayed on the console showing the accessible resources. Scans show resources that other accounts and federated users can access, such as KMS keys and IAM roles. The results allow you to determine whether an unintended user is permitted, making it easier for administrators to monitor least privilege access. Access Analyzer analyzes only the policies that are applied to resources in the same AWS Region.

AWS IAM External Access Analyzer helps you identify the resources in your organization and accounts, such as Amazon S3 buckets or IAM roles, that are shared with external entities. This allows you to identify unintended access to your resources and data. Access Analyzer identifies resources that are shared with external principals by using logic-based reasoning to analyze the resource-based policies in your AWS environment. IAM External Access Analyzer continuously monitors all policies for S3 buckets, IAM roles, KMS (Key Management Service) keys, AWS Lambda functions, Amazon SQS (Simple Queue Service) queues and more

## Remediation

### From Console

Perform the following to enable IAM Access Analyzer for IAM policies:

1. Open the IAM console at `https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/.`
2. Choose `Access analyzer`.
3. Choose `Create external access analyzer`.
4. On the `Create analyzer` page, confirm that the `Region` displayed is the Region where you want to enable Access Analyzer.
5. Optionally enter a name for the analyzer.
6. Optionally add any tags that you want to apply to the analyzer.
7. Choose `Create Analyzer`.
8. Repeat these step for each active region.

### From Command Line

Run the following command:

```bash
aws accessanalyzer create-analyzer --analyzer-name <NAME> --type <ACCOUNT|ORGANIZATION>
```

Repeat this command for each active region.

**Note:** The IAM Access Analyzer is successfully configured only when the account you use has the necessary permissions.
