## Description

Server access logging generates a log that contains access records for each request made to your S3 bucket. An access log record contains details about the request, such as the request type, the resources specified in the request worked, and the time and date the request was processed. It is recommended that server access logging be enabled on the CloudTrail S3 bucket.

## Remediation

Perform the following to enable server access logging:

### From Console:

1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the S3 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3.
2. Under `All Buckets` click on the target S3 bucket.
3. Click on `Properties` in the top right of the console.
4. Under `Server access logging`, click `Edit`.
5. Configure bucket logging:
- Check the `Enabled` box.
- Select a Target Bucket from the list.
- Enter a Target Prefix.
6. Click `Save`.

### From Command Line:

1. Get the name of the S3 bucket that CloudTrail is logging to:

```bash
aws cloudtrail describe-trails --region <region-name> --query trailList[*].S3BucketName
```

2. Copy and add the target bucket name at `<bucket-name>`, the prefix for the log file at `<log-file-prefix>` and optionally add an email address in the following template, then save it as `<file-name>.json`:

```json
{
  "LoggingEnabled": {
    "TargetBucket": "<bucket-name>",
    "TargetPrefix": "<log-file-prefix>",
    "TargetGrants": [
      {
        "Grantee": {
          "Type": "AmazonCustomerByEmail",
          "EmailAddress": "<email-address>"
        },
        "Permission": "FULL_CONTROL"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

3. Run the `put-bucket-logging` command with bucket name and `<filename>.json` as input; for more information, refer to [put-bucket-logging:](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3api/put-bucket-logging.html)

## Default Value:

By default, server access logging is disabled on S3 buckets, including those used for CloudTrail. Without enabling this setting, no record of access requests to the CloudTrail bucket is captured, leaving organizations without visibility into who accessed log files or how they were used.
