## Description

Real-time monitoring of API calls can be achieved by directing CloudTrail Logs to CloudWatch Logs or an external Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) environment, and establishing corresponding metric filters and alarms.

It is recommended that a metric filter and alarm be established for customer-created CMKs that have changed state to disabled or are scheduled for deletion.

## Remediation

If you are using CloudTrail trails and CloudWatch, perform the following steps to set up the metric filter, alarm, SNS topic, and subscription:

1. Create a metric filter based on the provided filter pattern that checks for CMKs that have been disabled or scheduled for deletion and uses the `<trail-loggroup-name>` taken from audit step 1:

```bash
aws logs put-metric-filter --log-group-name <trail-log-group-name> --filter-name <disable-or-delete-cmk-changes-metric> --metrictransformations metricName=<disable-or-delete-cmk-changesmetric>,metricNamespace='CISBenchmark',metricValue=1 --filter-pattern '{($.eventSource = kms.amazonaws.com) && (($.eventName=DisableKey)||($.eventName=ScheduleKeyDeletion)) }'
```

**Note**: You can choose your own `metricName` and `metricNamespace` strings. Using the same `metricNamespace` for all Foundations Benchmark metrics will group them together.

2. Create an SNS topic that the alarm will notify:

```bash
aws sns create-topic --name <sns-topic-name>
```

**Note**: You can execute this command once and then reuse the same topic for all monitoring alarms.

**Note**: Capture the TopicArn that is displayed when creating the SNS topic in step 2; you will need it in step 3 to create the subscription and in step 4 to associate the alarm.

3. Create an SNS subscription for the topic created in step 2:

```bash
aws sns subscribe --topic-arn <sns-topic-arn> --protocol <sns-protocol> --notification-endpoint <sns-subscription-endpoints>
```

**Note**: You can execute this command once and then reuse the same subscription for all monitoring alarms.

4. Create an alarm that is associated with the CloudWatch Logs metric filter created in step 1 and the SNS topic created in step 2:

```bash
aws cloudwatch put-metric-alarm --alarm-name <disable-or-delete-cmkchanges-alarm> --metric-name <disable-or-delete-cmk-changes-metric> --statistic Sum --period 300 --threshold 1 --comparison-operatorGreaterThanOrEqualToThreshold --evaluation-periods 1 --namespace 'CISBenchmark' --alarm-actions <sns-topic-arn>
```

## Default Value:

By default, CloudTrail logs KMS events (DisableKey, ScheduleKeyDeletion), but no CloudWatch metric filters or alarms are set. These changes are recorded but not actively monitored unless configured.