## Description

CloudTrail log file validation creates a digitally signed digest file containing a hash of each log that CloudTrail writes to S3. These digest files can be used to determine whether a log file was changed, deleted, or remained unchanged after CloudTrail delivered the log. It is recommended that file validation be enabled for all CloudTrails.

## Remediation

Perform the following to enable log file validation on a given trail:

### From Console:

1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudtrail.
2. Click on `Trails` in the left navigation pane.
3. Click on the target trail.
4. Within the `General details` section, click `edit`.
5. Under `Advanced settings`, check the `enable` box under `Log file validation.`
6. Click `Save changes.`

### From Command Line:

Enable log file validation on a trail:

```bash
aws cloudtrail update-trail --name <trail_name> --enable-log-file-validation
```

Note that periodic validation of logs using these digests can be carried out by running the following command:

```bash
aws cloudtrail validate-logs --trail-arn <trail_arn> --start-time
<start_time> --end-time <end_time>
```

## Default Value:

By default, CloudTrail log file validation is not enabled. This means that while logs are still delivered to the designated S3 bucket, there is no mechanism in place to verify their integrity. Without validation, it is not possible to detect if log files have been altered, deleted, or tampered with after delivery.
