## Description

Ensure contact email and telephone details for AWS accounts are current and map to more than one individual in your organization.

An AWS account supports a number of contact details, and AWS will use these to contact the account owner if activity judged to be in breach of the Acceptable Use Policy or indicative of a likely security compromise is observed by the AWS Abuse team. Contact details should not be for a single individual, as circumstances may arise where that individual is unavailable. Email contact details should point to a mail alias which forwards email to multiple individuals within the organization; where feasible, phone contact details should point to a PABX hunt group or other call-forwarding system.

## Remediation

This activity can only be performed via the AWS Console, with a user who has permission to read and write Billing information (aws-portal:*Billing).

### From Console:

1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the `Billing and Cost Management` console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/.
2. On the navigation bar, choose your account name, and then choose Account.
3. On the `Account Settings` page, next to `Account Settings`, choose `Edit`.
4. Next to the field that you need to update, choose `Edit`.
5. After you have entered your changes, choose `Save changes`.
6. After you have made your changes, choose `Done`.
7. To edit your contact information, under `Contact Information`, choose `Edit`.
8. For the fields that you want to change, type your updated information, and then choose `Update`.

### From Command Line:

1. Run the following command:

```bash
aws account put-contact-information --contact-information '{
  "AddressLine1": "<AddressLine 1>",
  "AddressLine2": "<AddressLine 2>",
  "City": "<City>",
  "CompanyName": "<Company Name>",
  "CountryCode": "<Country Code>",
  "FullName": "<Full Name>",
  "PhoneNumber": "<Phone Number>",
  "PostalCode": "<Postal Code>",
  "StateOrRegion": "<State or Region>"
}'
```

### Default Value:

By default, AWS account contact information (email and telephone) is set to the values provided at account creation. These usually reference a single individual rather than a shared alias or group contact.