## Description

Amazon RDS offers Multi-AZ deployments that provide enhanced availability and durability for your databases, using synchronous replication to replicate data to a standby instance in a different Availability Zone (AZ). In the event of an infrastructure failure, Amazon RDS automatically fails over to the standby to minimize downtime and ensure business continuity

## Remediation

### From Console:

1. Login to the AWS Management Console and open the RDS dashboard at [AWS RDS Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds#).
2. In the left navigation pane, click on `Databases`.
3. Select the database instance that needs Multi-AZ deployment to be enabled.
4. Click the `Modify` button at the top right.
5. Scroll down to the `Availability & Durability` section.
6. Under` Multi-AZ deployment`, select `Yes` to enable.
7. Review the changes and click `Continue`.
8. On the `Review` page, choose `Apply immediately` to make the change without waiting for the next maintenance window, or Apply during the next `scheduled maintenance window.`
9. Click `Modify DB Instance` to apply the changes.

### From Command Line:

1. Run the following command to modify the RDS instance and enable Multi-AZ:

```bash
aws rds modify-db-instance --region <region-name> --db-instanceidentifier <db-name> --multi-az --apply-immediately
```

2. Confirm that the Multi-AZ deployment is enabled by running the following command:

```bash
aws rds describe-db-instances --region <region-name> --db-instanceidentifier <db-name> --query 'DBInstances[*] MultiAZ'
```

- If the output is True, Multi-AZ is enabled.
- If the output is False, Multi-AZ is not enabled.

5. Repeat steps 1 and 2 to audit each RDS instance, and change regions to verify in other regions.

### Default Value:

By default, Amazon RDS instances are created as Single-AZ deployments. Multi-AZ must be explicitly enabled during instance creation or modification.