## Description

Enable the IAM External Access Analyzer regarding all resources in each active AWS region.

IAM Access Analyzer is a technology introduced at AWS reinvent 2019. After the Analyzer is enabled in IAM, scan results are displayed on the console showing the accessible resources. Scans show resources that other accounts and federated users can access, such as KMS keys and IAM roles. The results allow you to determine whether an unintended user is permitted, making it easier for administrators to monitor least privilege access. Access Analyzer analyzes only the policies that are applied to resources in the same AWS Region.

## Remediation

### From Console:

Perform the following to enable IAM Access Analyzer for IAM policies:

1. Open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/.
2. Choose `Access analyzer.`
3. Choose `Create external access analyzer.`
4. On the `Create analyzer` page, confirm that the Region displayed is the Region where you want to enable Access Analyzer.
5. Optionally enter a name for the analyzer.
6. Optionally add any tags that you want to apply to the analyzer.
7. Choose `Create Analyzer.`
8. Repeat these step for each active region.

### From Command Line:

Run the following command:

```bash
aws accessanalyzer list-analyzers --type ORGANIZATION
```

Repeat this command for each active region.

**Note**: The IAM Access Analyzer is successfully configured only when the account you use has the necessary permissions.

### Default Value:

By default, IAM External Access Analyzer is not enabled in any region. An analyzer must be explicitly created and activated for each region where monitoring is required.