## Description

VPC Flow Logs is a feature that enables you to capture information about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in your VPC. After you've created a flow log, you can view and retrieve its data in Amazon CloudWatch Logs. It is recommended that VPC Flow Logs be enabled for packet "Rejects" for VPCs.

## Remediation

Perform the following to enable VPC Flow Logs:

### From Console:

1. Sign into the management console.
2. Select `Services`, then select `VPC`.
3. In the left navigation pane, select Your VPCs.
4. Select a VPC.
5. In the right pane, select the `Flow Logs` tab.
6. If no Flow Log exists, click `Create Flow Log.`
7. For Filter, select `Reject`.
8. Enter a `Role` and `Destination Log Group.`
9. Click `Create Log Flow.`
10. Click on `CloudWatch Logs Group.`

**Note**: Setting the filter to "Reject" will dramatically reduce the accumulation of logging data for this recommendation and provide sufficient information for the purposes of breach detection, research, and remediation. However, during periods of least privilege security group engineering, setting the filter to "All" can be very helpful in discovering existing traffic flows required for the proper operation of an already running environment.

### From Command Line:

1. Create a policy document, name it `role_policy_document.json`, and paste the following content:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "test",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Service": "vpc-flow-logs.amazonaws.com"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
    }
  ]
}
```

2. Create another policy document, name it iam_policy.json, and paste the following content:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "logs:CreateLogGroup",
        "logs:CreateLogStream",
        "logs:DescribeLogGroups",
        "logs:DescribeLogStreams",
        "logs:PutLogEvents",
        "logs:GetLogEvents",
        "logs:FilterLogEvents"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

3. Run the following command to create an IAM role:

```bash
aws iam create-role --role-name <aws-support-iam-role> --assume-role-policydocument file: <file-path>role_policy_document.json
```

4. Run the following command to create an IAM policy:

```bash
aws iam create-policy --policy-name <iam-policy-name> --policy-document file://<file-path>iam-policy.json
```

5. Run the `attach-group-policy` command, using the IAM policy ARN returned from the previous step to attach the policy to the IAM role:

```bash
aws iam attach-group-policy --policy-arn arn:aws:iam::<aws-accountid>:policy/<iam-policy-name> --group-name <group-name>
```

- If the command succeeds, no output is returned.

6. Run the `describe-vpcs` command to get a list of VPCs in the selected region:

```bash
aws ec2 describe-vpcs --region <region>
```

-  The command output should return a list of VPCs in the selected region.

7. Run the `create-flow-logs` command to create a flow log for a VPC:

```bash
aws ec2 create-flow-logs --resource-type VPC --resource-ids <vpc-id> -- traffic-type REJECT --log-group-name <log-group-name> --deliver-logspermission-arn <iam-role-arn>
```

8. Repeat step 7 for other VPCs in the selected region.
9. Change the region by updating --region, and repeat the remediation procedure for each region.

## Default Value:

By default, VPC Flow Logs are not enabled for any newly created VPCs. Logging must be manually configured on a per-VPC basis.
