## Description

Ensure and verify that the RDS database instances provisioned in your AWS account restrict unauthorized access in order to minimize security risks. To restrict access to any RDS database instance, you must disable the Publicly Accessible flag for the database and update the VPC security group associated with the instance.

## Remediation

### From Console:

1. Log in to the AWS management console and navigate to the RDS dashboard at https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/.
2. Under the navigation panel, on the RDS dashboard, click `Databases`.
3. Select the RDS instance that you want to update.
4. Click `Modify` from the dashboard top menu.
5. On the Modify DB Instance panel, under the `Connectivity` section, click on `Additional connectivity configuration` and update the value for `Publicly Accessible` to `Not publicly accessible` to restrict public access.
6. Follow the below steps to update subnet configurations:
  - Select the `Connectivity and security` tab, and click the VPC attribute value inside the `Networking` section.
  - Select the `Details` tab from the VPC dashboard's bottom panel and click the Route table configuration attribute value.
  - On the Route table details page, select the Routes tab from the dashboard's bottom panel and click `Edit routes.`
  - On the Edit routes page, update the Destination of Target which is set to `igwxxxxx` and click `Save` routes.
7. On the Modify DB Instance panel, click Continue, and in the Scheduling of modifications section, perform one of the following actions based on your requirements:
  - Select `Apply during the next scheduled maintenance window` to apply the changes automatically during the next scheduled maintenance window.
  - Select `Apply immediately` to apply the changes right away. With this option, any pending modifications will be asynchronously applied as soon as possible, regardless of the maintenance window setting for this RDS database instance. Note that any changes available in the pending modifications queue are also applied. If any of the pending modifications require downtime, choosing this option can cause unexpected downtime for the application.
8. Repeat steps 3-7 for each RDS instance in the current region.
9. Change the AWS region from the navigation bar to repeat the process for other regions.

### From Command Line:

1. Run the `describe-db-instances` command to list all available RDS database identifiers in the selected AWS region:

```bash
aws rds describe-db-instances --region <region-name> --query 'DBInstances[*].DBInstanceIdentifier'
```

2. The command output should return each database instance identifier.
3. Run the `modify-db-instance` command to modify the configuration of a selected RDS instance, disabling the `Publicly Accessible `flag for that instance. This command uses the `apply-immediately` flag. If you want to avoid any downtime, the `--no-apply-immediately` flag can be used:

```bash
aws rds modify-db-instance --region <region-name> --db-instance-identifier <db-instance-name> --no-publicly-accessible --apply-immediately
```

4. The command output should reveal the `PubliclyAccessible` configuration under pending values, to be applied at the specified time.
5. Updating the Internet Gateway destination via the AWS CLI is not currently supported. To update information about the Internet Gateway, please use the AWS Console procedure.
6. Repeat steps 1-5 for each RDS instance provisioned in the current region.
7. Change the AWS region by using the --region filter to repeat the process for other regions.

### Default Value:

By default, new Amazon RDS instances are created with the Publicly Accessible setting disabled. However, this option can be explicitly enabled during instance creation or modification.