## Description

AWS access from within AWS instances can be done by either encoding AWS keys into AWS API calls or by assigning the instance to a role which has an appropriate permissions policy for the required access. "AWS Access" means accessing the APIs of AWS in order to access AWS resources or manage AWS account resources.

## Remediation

### From Console:

1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and navigate to the EC2 dashboard at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.
2. In the left navigation panel, choose `Instances`.
3. Select the EC2 instance you want to modify.
4. Click `Actions`.
5. Click `Security`.
6. Click `Modify IAM role.`
7. Click `Create new IAM role` if a new IAM role is required.
8. Select the IAM role you want to attach to your instance in the `IAM role` dropdown.
9. Click `Update IAM role.`
10. Repeat steps 3 to 9 for each EC2 instance in your AWS account that requires an IAM role to be attached.

### From Command Line:

1. Run the describe-instances command to list all EC2 instance IDs in the selected AWS region:

```bash
aws ec2 describe-instances --region <region-name> --query 'Reservations[*].Instances[*].InstanceId'
```

2. Run the associate-iam-instance-profile command to attach an instance profile (which is attached to an IAM role) to the EC2 instance:

```bash
aws ec2 associate-iam-instance-profile --region <region-name> --instance-id <Instance-ID> --iam-instance-profile Name="Instance-Profile-Name"
```

3. Run the describe-instances command again for the recently modified EC2 instance. The command output should return the instance profile ARN and ID:

```bash
aws ec2 describe-instances --region <region-name> --instance-id <Instance-ID> --query 'Reservations[*].Instances[*].IamInstanceProfile'
```

4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for each EC2 instance in your AWS account that requires an IAM role to be attached.

### Default Value:

By default, EC2 instances are launched without an IAM role attached. Applications running on the instance must use embedded credentials or manually assigned access keys unless an instance role is explicitly configured.