## Description

Ensure that RDS database instances have the Auto Minor Version Upgrade flag enabled to automatically receive minor engine upgrades during the specified maintenance window. This way, RDS instances can obtain new features, bug fixes, and security patches for their database engines.

## Remediation

### From Console:

1. Log in to the AWS management console and navigate to the RDS dashboard at https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/.
2. In the left navigation panel, click `Databases`.
3. Select the RDS instance that you want to update.
4. Click on the `Modify` button located at the top right side.
5. On the `Modify DB Instance: <instance identifier>` page, In the `Maintenance` section, select `Auto minor version upgrade` and click the `Yes` radio button.
6. At the bottom of the page, click `Continue`, and check `Apply Immediately` to apply the changes immediately, or select `Apply during the next scheduled maintenance window` to avoid any downtime.
7. Review the changes and click `Modify DB Instance.` The instance status should change from available to modifying and back to available. Once the feature is enabled, the `Auto Minor Version Upgrade` status should change to `Yes`.

### From Command Line:

1. Run the `describe-db-instances` command to list all RDS database instance names available in the selected AWS region:

```bash
aws rds describe-db-instances --region <region-name> --query 'DBInstances[*].DBInstanceIdentifier'
```

2. The command output should return each database instance identifier.
3. Run the `modify-db-instance` command to modify the configuration of a selected RDS instance. This command will apply the changes immediately.

Remove `--apply-immediately` to apply changes during the next scheduled maintenance window and avoid any downtime:

```bash
aws rds modify-db-instance --region <region-name> --db-instance-identifier <db-instance-identifier> --auto-minor-version-upgrade --apply-immediately
```

4. The command output should reveal the new configuration metadata for the RDS instance, including the `AutoMinorVersionUpgrade` parameter value.
5. Run the `describe-db-instances` command to check if the Auto Minor Version Upgrade feature has been successfully enabled:

```bash
aws rds describe-db-instances --region <region-name> --db-instance-identifier <db-instance-identifier> --query 'DBInstances[*].AutoMinorVersionUpgrade'
```

6. The command output should return the feature's current status set to true, indicating that the feature is `enabled`, and that the minor engine upgrades will be applied to the selected RDS instance.

### Default Value:

By default, new Amazon RDS instances have the Auto Minor Version Upgrade option enabled, unless explicitly disabled at creation or modification.