## Description

AWS CloudTrail is a web service that records AWS API calls for an account and makes those logs available to users and resources in accordance with IAM policies. AWS Key Management Service (KMS) is a managed service that helps create and control the encryption keys used to encrypt account data, and uses Hardware Security Modules (HSMs) to protect the security of encryption keys. CloudTrail logs can be configured to leverage server side encryption (SSE) and KMS customer-created master keys (CMK) to further protect CloudTrail logs. It is recommended that CloudTrail be configured to use SSE-KMS.

## Remediation

Perform the following to configure CloudTrail to use SSE-KMS:

### From Console:

1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the CloudTrail console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudtrail.
2. In the left navigation pane, choose `Trails`.
3. Click on a trail.
4. Under the `S3` section, click the edit button (pencil icon).
5. Click `Advanced`.
6. Select an existing CMK from the `KMS key Id` drop-down menu.
**Note**: Ensure the CMK is located in the same region as the S3 bucket.
**Note**: You will need to apply a KMS key policy on the selected CMK in order for CloudTrail, as a service, to encrypt and decrypt log files using the CMK provided. View the AWS documentation for editing the selected CMK Key policy.
7. Click `Save`.
8. You will see a notification message stating that you need to have decryption permissions on the specified KMS key to decrypt log files.
9. Click `Yes`.

### From Command Line:

Run the following command to specify a KMS key ID to use with a trail:

```bash
aws cloudtrail update-trail --name <trail-name> --kms-key-id <cloudtrailkms-key>
```

Run the following command to attach a key policy to a specified KMS key:

```bash
aws kms put-key-policy --key-id <cloudtrail-kms-key> --policy <cloudtrailkms-key-policy>
```

## Default Value:

By default, CloudTrail logs are not encrypted with a KMS CMK. Logs may be encrypted with SSE-S3, but this does not provide the same level of control or auditing as KMS CMKs.
