## Description

S3 object-level API operations, such as GetObject, DeleteObject, and PutObject, are referred to as data events. By default, CloudTrail trails do not log data events, so it is recommended to enable object-level logging for S3 buckets.

## Remediation

### From Console:

1. Login to the AWS Management Console and navigate to the S3 dashboard at https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/.
2. In the left navigation panel, click `buckets`, and then click the name of the S3 bucket you want to examine.
3. Click the `Properties` tab to see the bucket configuration in detail.
4. In the `AWS CloudTrail data events` section, select the trail name for recording activity. You can choose an existing trail or create a new one by clicking the `Configure in CloudTrail` button or navigating to the CloudTrail console.
5. Once the trail is selected, select the Data Events check box.
6. Select `S3` from the `Data event type` drop-down.
7. Select `Log all events` from the `Log selector template` drop-down.
8. Repeat steps 2-7 to enable object-level logging of write events for other S3 buckets.

### From Command Line:

1. To enable `object-level` data events logging for S3 buckets within your AWS account, run the `put-event-selectors` command using the name of the trail that you want to reconfigure as identifier:

```bash
aws cloudtrail put-event-selectors --region <region-name> --trail-name <trail-name> --event-selectors '[{ "ReadWriteType": "WriteOnly", "IncludeManagementEvents":true, "DataResources": [{ "Type": "AWS::S3::Object", "Values": ["arn:aws:s3:::<s3-bucket-name>/"] }] }]'
```

2. The command output will be `object-level` event trail configuration.
3. If you want to enable it for all buckets at once, change the Values parameter to `["arn:aws:s3"]` in the previous command.
4. Repeat step 1 for each s3 bucket to update `object-level` logging of write events.
5. Change the AWS region by updating the `--region` command parameter, and perform the process for the other regions.

## Default Value:

By default, CloudTrail does not log object-level (data event) API operations for S3 buckets. Data event logging must be explicitly enabled per trail and bucket.
