## Description

Common Internet File System (CIFS) is a network file-sharing protocol that allows systems to share files over a network. However, unrestricted CIFS access can expose your data to unauthorized users, leading to potential security risks. It is important to restrict CIFS access to only trusted networks and users to prevent unauthorized access and data breaches.

## Remediation

### From Console:

1. Login to the AWS Management Console.
2. Navigate to the EC2 Dashboard and select the Security Groups section under `Network & Security.`
3. Identify the security group that allows unrestricted ingress on port 445.
4. Select the security group and click the `Edit Inbound Rules` button.
5. Locate the rule allowing unrestricted access on port 445 (typically listed as `0.0.0.0/0` or ::`/0`).
6. Modify the rule to restrict access to specific IP ranges or trusted networks only.
7. Save the changes to the security group.

**Note**: EBS volume encryption is configured per region.

### From Command Line:

1. Run the following command to remove or modify the unrestricted rule for CIFS access:

```bash
aws ec2 revoke-security-group-ingress --region <region-name> --group-id <security-group-id> --protocol tcp --port 445 --cidr 0.0.0.0/0
```

  - Optionally, run the authorise-security-group-ingress command to create a new rule, specifying a trusted CIDR range instead of 0.0.0.0/0.
2. Confirm the changes by describing the security group again and ensuring the unrestricted access rule has been removed or appropriately restricted:

```bash
aws ec2 describe-security-groups --region <region-name> --group-ids <security-group-id> --query "SecurityGroups[*].IpPermissions[?((IpProtocol=='-1') || (FromPort<=\`445\` && ToPort>=\`445\`))].{IpProtocol:IpProtocol,FromPort:FromPort,ToPort:ToPort,CIDRv4:IpRanges[*].CidrIp,CIDRv6:Ipv6Ranges[*].CidrIpv6}"
```

3. Repeat the remediation for other security groups and regions as necessary.

## Default Value:

By default, security groups can allow unrestricted CIFS access (port 445) if configured, including 0.0.0.0/0 or ::/0. AWS does not automatically restrict this; controls must be set manually to limit access to trusted networks.