## Description

IAM policies are the means by which privileges are granted to users, groups, or roles. It is recommended and considered standard security advice to grant least privilege—that is, granting only the permissions required to perform a task. Determine what users need to do, and then craft policies for them that allow the users to perform only those tasks, instead of granting full administrative privileges.

It's more secure to start with a minimum set of permissions and grant additional permissions as necessary, rather than starting with permissions that are too lenient and then attempting to tighten them later.

Providing full administrative privileges instead of restricting access to the minimum set of permissions required for the user exposes resources to potentially unwanted actions.

IAM policies that contain a statement with `"Effect": "Allow"` and `"Action": "*"` over `"Resource": "*"` should be removed.

## Remediation

### From Console

Perform the following to detach the policy that has full administrative privileges:

1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the IAM console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/).
2. In the navigation pane, click Policies and then search for the policy name found in the audit step.
3. Select the policy that needs to be deleted.
4. In the policy action menu, select `Detach`.
5. Select all Users, Groups, Roles that have this policy attached.
6. Click `Detach Policy`.
7. Select the newly detached policy and select `Delete`.

### From Command Line

Perform the following to detach the policy that has full administrative privileges as found in the audit step:

1. Lists all IAM users, groups, and roles that the specified managed policy is attached to.

```bash
aws iam list-entities-for-policy --policy-arn <policy_arn>
```

2. Detach the policy from all IAM Users:

```bash
aws iam detach-user-policy --user-name <iam_user> --policy-arn <policy_arn>
```

3. Detach the policy from all IAM Groups:

```bash
aws iam detach-group-policy --group-name <iam_group> --policy-arn <policy_arn>
```

4. Detach the policy from all IAM Roles:

```bash
aws iam detach-role-policy --role-name <iam_role> --policy-arn <policy_arn>
```
