## Description

Real-time monitoring of API calls can be achieved by directing CloudTrail Logs to CloudWatch Logs or an external Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) environment, and establishing corresponding metric filters and alarms.

Routing tables are used to route network traffic between subnets and to network gateways.

It is recommended that a metric filter and alarm be established for changes to route tables.

CloudWatch is an AWS native service that allows you to observe and monitor resources and applications. CloudTrail logs can also be sent to an external Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) environment for monitoring and alerting.

Monitoring changes to route tables will help ensure that all VPC traffic flows through the expected path and prevent any accidental or intentional modifications that may lead to uncontrolled network traffic. An alarm should be triggered every time an AWS API call is performed to create, replace, delete, or disassociate a route table.

## Remediation

If you are using CloudTrail trails and CloudWatch, perform the following steps to set up the metric filter, alarm, SNS topic, and subscription:

1. Create a metric filter based on the provided filter pattern that checks for route table changes and uses the `<trail-log-group-name>` taken from audit step 1:

```bash
aws logs put-metric-filter --log-group-name <trail-log-group-name> --filter-pattern '{ ($.eventName = CreateRoute) || ($.eventName = CreateRouteTable) || ($.eventName = ReplaceRoute) || ($.eventName = ReplaceRouteTableAssociation) || ($.eventName = DeleteRouteTable) || ($.eventName = DeleteRoute) || ($.eventName = DisassociateRouteTable) }'
```

 **Note**: You can choose your own `metricName` and `metricNamespace` strings. Using the same `metricNamespace` for all Foundations Benchmark metrics will group them together.

2. Create an SNS topic that the alarm will notify:

```bash
aws sns create-topic --name <sns-topic-name>
```

 **Note**: You can execute this command once and then reuse the same topic for all monitoring alarms.

 **Note**: Capture the `TopicArn` that is displayed when creating the SNS topic in step 2.

3. Create an SNS subscription for the topic created in step 2:

```bash
aws sns subscribe --topic-arn <sns-topic-arn> --protocol <sns-protocol> --notification-endpoint <sns-subscription-endpoints>
```

 **Note**: You can execute this command once and then reuse the same subscription for all monitoring alarms.

4. Create an alarm that is associated with the CloudWatch Logs metric filter created in step 1 and the SNS topic created in step 2:

```bash
aws cloudwatch put-metric-alarm --alarm-name <route-table-changes-alarm> --metric-name <route-table-changes-metric> --statistic Sum --period 300 --threshold 1 --comparison-operator GreaterThanOrEqualToThreshold --evaluation-periods 1 --namespace 'CISBenchmark' --alarm-actions <sns-topic-arn>
```
